---
title: "Delegate in C#"
date: 2017-05-12
category: C#
tags: [CSharp, feature, theory, introduction]

---


## What is the delegate? 

1. Delegate is a new feature of the object-oriented language which runs on the .Net platform.  
2. The development of event driver, which is based on delegate, is very easy.  
3. The multiple thread programming will be reduced by using delegate.  
 
***
Let's try to understand the delegate.  
  
        int a;
        a = 100;
        int b = a+ 10;

The code showed above is the use of data type "int". For delegate, we can look it as a kind of data type, too. Although it also can be used for defining the variables, the difference is that the variable only can be a method (function). Thus, we can think the delegate as a pointer of a method.
  
***  

Next, I will show how to use the delegate by coding. There are four steps to finish a delegate operation.  
#### **[1]Declare the delegate (define the prototype of a method or a function: return value + the type and numbers of parameters)**  
`public delegate int CalculatorDelegate(int a, int b);`  

***

#### **[2]Define the specific method according to the declaration of the delegate**  

This step is a little like the operation of the interface, implement the method according to the prototype of the method.  

        static int Add(int num1, int num2)
        {
            return num1 + num2;
        }
        static int Sub(int num1, int num2)
        {
            return num1 - num2;
        }

***
#### **[3]Create the object of the delegate**  

`CalculatorDelegate objCal = new CalculatorDelegate(Add);`

We also can create the object like below:  

`CalculatorDelegate objCal = Add;`

***
#### **[4]Call the method via the delegate rather than directly calling the method**

`int result = objCal(10, 20);`

***

The code above is the basic use of the delegate. It is quite easy, right? In fact, it is more complicated in a real project but the nature is always there. So you don't worry about it. I will introduce more about the delegate in the future. By the way, the delegate also can be used like below:

        objCal -= Add; // Dismiss the connection with Add function
        objCal += Sub; // Establish the connection with Sub function
        result = objCal(10, 20); 

I hope that I have explained them clearly.  
